# Brief description of [raw/](/data/raw/) folder

In the raw/ folder, we have 4 separate CSV files and 2 folders. The text below provides a brief summary of each of them.

- [`abbr-name.csv`](/data/raw/abbr-name.csv)： This CSV format file is the state names and codes in the United States with their abbreviate code in alphabetical order. It contains 2 columns with 51 rows, where the first row is the row name, the first column is the abbreviate state code, and the second column is the corresponding state name. Note that this file does not contain the District of Columbia.

- [`num_employees_by_sector.csv`](/data/raw/num_employees_by_sector.csv) : This CSV format file is about the number of mine operator and independent contractor employees by sector and year from 1983 to 2021 obtained by web scrapping at the [CDC NIOSH Mine and Mine Worker Charts webpage](https://wwwn.cdc.gov/NIOSH-Mining/MMWC/Employee/Count?StartYear=1983&EndYear=2021&SelectedMineType=). It contains 9 rows with 40 columns. Each row contains the number of employees in that sector, and the last row is the total number of employees for all sectors. Each column contains data from that specific year.

- [`num_of_active_mines_by_sector.csv`](/data/raw/num_of_active_mines_by_sector.csv): This CSV format file is about the number of active mines by sectors and years from 1983 to 2021 obtained by web scrapping at the [CDC NIOSH Mine and Mine Worker Charts webpage](https://wwwn.cdc.gov/NIOSH-Mining/MMWC/Mine#). It contains 7 rows with 40 columns. Each row contains the number of active mines in that sector, and the last row is the total number of active mines for all sectors. Each column contains data from that specific year.

- [`num_of_employee_hour_by_sector.csv`](/data/raw/num_of_employee_hour_by_sector.csv) : This CSV format file is about the number of employee hours reported by mine operators and independent contractors by sector and year from 1983 to 2021 obtained by web scrapping at the [CDC NIOSH Mine and Mine Worker Charts webpage](https://wwwn.cdc.gov/NIOSH-Mining/MMWC/Employee/Hours#). It contains 9 rows with 40 columns. Each row contains the number of employee hours (in millions) in that sector, and the last row is the total number of employees for all sectors. Each column contains data from that specific year.

- [num_employees_bu_region/](/data/raw/num_employees_by_region/) : This folder contains 39 CSV files. Each file is about the number of mine operator employees by region in that specific year shown in the file name and its obtained by scrapping the [CDC NIOSH Mine and Mine Worker Charts webpage (2021 as an example)](https://wwwn.cdc.gov/NIOSH-Mining/MMWC/EmployeeMap/Table?Year=2021&SelectedCommodity=1%2C2%2C3%2C4%2C5). All files in this folder have 3 columns: the first column is the state, the second column is the county, and the third column is the number of employees in that county. The state and county name are listed in alphabetical order. Note that the file does not contain the county with no mine operator employees.

- [`num_operators_by_region/`](/data/raw/num_operators_by_region/) : This folder contains 39 CSV files. Each file is about the number of active mining operations by region in that specific year shown in the file name and its obtained by scrapping the [CDC NIOSH Mine and Mine Worker Charts webpage](https://wwwn.cdc.gov/NIOSH-Mining/MMWC/MineMap/Table?Year=). All files in this folder have 3 columns: the first column is the state, the second column is the county, and the third column is the number of active mining operations in that county. The state and county name are listed in alphabetical order. Note that the file does not contain the county with no active mining operation.

**The last time check for the availability of hyperlink of the website was at 2023-2-16**
